# Virtual Advisor

Stasis Theory:

A. Conjecture - The original virtual advisor was built to solve a common problem - students needing the answers to important questions about what classes to take and how to fulfill their major requirements, but physical advisors being too busy and overworked to answer these simple yet vital questions from all of their students. The first iteration of the solution did a great job at solving this problem for students in the public and professional writing major by creating a straightforward website that allows students to easily navigate the intricacies of their course requirements. However, it would take a lot of effort and HTML knowledge to translate this solution to all of the departments at Pitt. Therefore, we will solve this problem by creating a simple fill-in-the blank GitHub page and accompanying tutorial, so that advisors can individually create a similar website for their department, with no HTML knowledge required.

B. Definition - The current solution - a website specifically for PPW majors - will be impoved greatly if a similar website could be created for all majors. This is a duanting task for one team to undertake, and would require deep knowledge of the degree requirements of each major. However, creating this website would require the advising department of each major to have someone with HTML knowledge capable of making a website from scratch, and would likely result in non-uniform websites accross majors. By creating a fill-in-the blank github page and accompanying turtorial, we will put the power to create a uniform tool for all students in the hands of the people who know the department best - the advisors. Once completed, students will be able to answer their own questions using this tool, reducing the burden on advisors and giving more agency to students in deciding their future.

C. Quality - Our project will make it easier for departments to create individualized virtual advising websites without extensive HTML knowledge. This project helps students understand what major requirements must be completed for graduation. Students benefit the most from our project which allows them to answer their own questions prior to physical advisor intervention. Advisors also benefit from having more uniform advising websites that list offered classes. If nothing changes, students will still struggle to fully understand which classes fulfill degree requirements. Physical advisors will also continue to receive floods of messages from students asking questions regarding their schedules. Physical advisors will save plenty of time by first having students utilize our virtual advisor. This will filter out repetitive and simple questions from ever reaching physical advisors unless extenuating circumstances occur.

D. Policy - Creating a system that is intuitive and useful for both advisors and students is paramount. Online solutions to many aspects of our education were starting to be implemented before being stimulated by the recent pandemic. However, as some aspects of our education have seamlessly translated to online versions, advising has lagged behind this change. We're here to make online advising a reality. Using an online service like Virtual Advisor mitigates inaccuracies and increases course transparency to both the advisor and the student. Instead of having students step through multiple websites to explore other majors, everything is in one place. Our group is committed to making the transition seamless and using a framework that has already been tried and tested by the writing department. The framework can be easily translated to all departments, and could be expanded beyond the undergraduate program and the Pittsburgh campus. The website will be made with improvement in mind and allow advisors to make their own decisions about how they design and organize their respective department in the future.
